i realized that for all my ramblings about the transit systems of the cities i visit, i haven't taken the time (or character width) to outline that of my home town. let's start with some basics. the city and county of san francisco is relatively small, about 50 square miles. it is home to about 812,000 people, which swells to a little over a million during the day. but to analyze the transit with the limits of our view being that of the city would be small minded. i like to think of san francisco merely as the center (geographically, and otherwise) of the larger, and much more populous area know as the "san francisco bay area". the bay area is a slightly arbitrary association of the 9 counties in the area surrounding the san francisco bay. the bay area and its 9 counties are home to a little over 8 million people. so in considering the plan of the areas transit system, one must extend the geographical borders to be at least 4 times the size of new york city to encompass its population, and needless to say, the citizens of the bay area don't act like the cohesive city that nyc does, so naturally the transit systems are much more segmented. i will focus, therefore, on the means of transportation which which i have become familiar in my life here.



the most obvious place to start is with muni (municipal railway). muni is the organization that runs the busses, and the light-rail within the city limits of san francisco. as you might imagine if you've heard anything about the city, there is quite a difficult hurdle to overcome in terms of hills. there are still remnants of muni's first effort to conquer the hill problem left in a few areas of the city, but that is mostly taken over by busses now. over 80 different bus lines snake their way all over town, connecting all the residential areas with the commercial, and with each other. one can get from just about anywhere to just about anywhere usually 2 busses, sometimes 3. in addition to the busses, there is the light rail system. it is composed of 5 lines j, k/t, (more on that in a moment) l, m, and n that are centralized in the downtown subway corridor. as they move out toward the residential areas of the city, each of 5 lines then surfaces and splits off t0 serve it's given neighbor hood or corridor. they are a unified system (<a title="never gonna give you up" href="http://trevorsargent.me/never-gonna-give-you-up/">boston</a>...), all lines serving the same platform at each of the stations at which more than one line serves (which is all of the subway stations). when the cars surface, aside from a few exceptions, steps lower to provide access to street level platforms.



now, the k/t problem. for as long as i have known it, all the lines of the subway fed into the downtown corridor, and ended, except for the n line. it proceeded to surface again, and trundle along the waterfront down to the baseball stadium and the commuter train station. back then, the lines were simply j-n. then construction started on a new line, the t, that picks up where the n left off, and continued down to an up and coming neighborhood. this line was part of a larger project that would create a "central subway" perpendicular to the downtown corridor, and connect to this new t line, but as that part of the phase was yet to be completed, the t route was tacked on to that of the k.