warning: (possibly slightly incorrect) physics to follow.



i got hit in the center of my nose with a rain drop the other day. the very center. and it got me thinking. i couldn't make that happen if i wanted to. i could line up a water dripping contraption, stand right under it, and wait forever and not a single drip of water would land right in the very middle of my nose.



fast forward a day and a few hours



when you get to college, or perhaps senior year of high school, you begin to learn that everything of consequence that you have learned in the past 11 or so years is a lie. not the foundational stuff, math and the like, but... here. example.



special relativity falls in this category. you thought you could just add some velocities together or rush around at near light speed and everything would be fine. funny part is, that if you did that, by the time you stopped having so much fun, all your friends would be dead. sorry. also in this category falls atomic theory. you thought you could just have a nucleus, charged positively, and observe how electrons orbit it, helping the atom bond with other atoms. well, not only would electrons simply orbiting radiate all their energy, and just "death spiral" into the nucleus, but that orbit is a little problematic. quantum mechanics makes is difficult, nay, impossible to simultaneously measure the velocity and position of an electron, or any other small particle for that matter (heh, matter, get it?). those "electron clouds" you learned about in chemistry, yeah. no. those are  "clouds" of probability that tell you where it probably is. if you look at the right time. not to mention all the "two places at once" business.



so every thing on this earth is composed of atoms, and all atoms contain electrons, and we only know probabilistically where those are at any one time.  reassuring huh?



i guess it doesn't actually change anything. everything functions just like it used to. but it gives a new perspective on things. makes you think twice. i was going somewhere with this.